
# What Google Learned From Its Quest to Build the Perfect Team
This is article is about group work. I descripes a real experiment that Julia Rozovsky has lived. Julia Rozovsky grduated from the university the she worked in many good and comfortable positions, but she was not enjoying her jobs, simply because they was a boring jobs. So in 2009, she chose the path that allowed her to put off making a decision: She applied to business schools and was accepted by the Yale School of Management. In the school, Rozovsky was assigned to a study group. Every group's member was smart and curious, and they had a lot in common. These shared experiences, Rozovsky hoped, would make it easy for them to work well together. But it didn’t turn out that way. Rozovsky’s study group was a source of stress. There were conflicts over who was in charge and who got to represent the group in class. So Rozovsky started looking for other groups she could join. So she joined team for ‘‘case competitions,’’ contests in which participants proposed solutions to real-world business problems that were evaluated by judges, who awarded trophies and cash. The members of her case-competition team had a variety of professional experiences. Despite their disparate backgrounds, however, the team was great. The team usually spent the first 10 minutes of each meeting chatting. When it came time to brainstorm, the have sugusted crazy ideas. This study group dissolved in Rozovsky’s second semester, but they were stuck together for the two years while she was at Yale.  

In 2012, Google embarked on an initiative — code-named Project Aristotle — to study hundreds of Google’s teams and figure out why some stumbled while others soared. Dubey, a leader of the project, gathered some of the company’s best statisticians, organizational psychologists, sociologists and engineers. He also needed researchers. Rozovsky, by then, had decided that what she wanted to do with her life was study people’s habits and tendencies. After graduating from Yale, she was hired by Google and was soon assigned to Project Aristotle.  

project Aristotle’s researchers began by reviewing a half-century of academic studies looking at how teams worked. Were the best teams made up of people with similar interests? Or did it matter more whether everyone was motivated by the same kinds of rewards? Based on those studies, the researchers scrutinized the composition of groups inside Google: How often did teammates socialize outside the office? Did they have the same hobbies? Were their educational backgrounds similar? Was it better for all teammates to be outgoing or for all of them to be shy?  

After looking at over a hundred groups for more than a year, Project Aristotle researchers concluded that understanding and influencing group norms were the keys to improving Google’s teams. But Rozovsky, now a lead researcher, needed to figure out which norms mattered most. Google’s research had identified dozens of behaviors that seemed important, except that sometimes the norms of one effective team contrasted sharply with those of another equally successful group. Was it better to let everyone speak as much as they wanted, or should strong leaders end meandering debates? Was it more effective for people to openly disagree with one another, or should conflicts be played down? The data didn’t offer clear verdicts. In fact, the data sometimes pointed in opposite directions. The only thing worse than not finding a pattern is finding too many of them. Which norms, Rozovsky and her colleagues wondered, were the ones that successful teams shared?

